### Cybersecurity

Not same as Information Security

**Cybersecurity** is ability to protect or defend the use of cyberspace from cyber attacks.

**Cyberspace** - Global virtual environmnet i.e. internet

**Cyber attack** - An attempt to disrupt, disable, destroy, or maliciously control a computing system via cyberspace.

### Information Security

**Information security** - Protection of information and infromation systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Can happen in Internet, LAN or WAN, computer, or mobile

Information secured on a LAN not connected to the Internet is Information not cybersecurity.

Cyber attacks can be implemented through:
* Phishing - trick users into giving info
* Malware - computer program that does malicious actions on another computer
* Man-in-the-Middle - Data to be exchanged between parties is comprised by the attacker
* Brute Force - Attacker guesses

### Principle of Cybersecurity

**2 Goals when implementing Cybersecurity:**
1. Confidential info must be kept out of reach from potential attackers
2. Cybersecurity measures must not hinder authorized users' access to the information.

**3 main principles of cybersecurity:**
1. Confidentiality - Ensure that the information is only accessible to authorized users and prevents the disclosure of info to unauthorized parties.
2. Integrity - Ensure info remains accurate, consistent, and not subject to unauthorized modification.
3. Availability - Efforts to secure info in cyberspace should not hinder its access by an authrorized part. Additionally, cybersecurity implementation has to provide for redundancy access in case of any outage.



### Quiz
1. A _____ attack is a cyber attack where the attacker tries guessing system access credentials like passwords by trying different character combinations until a correct combination is identified.
   * Brute force
2. Annabelle, the CEO of Kumquat Computing, Inc., emails her vice president, Roland, to discuss an upcoming merger. Evelyn intercepts the email and changes the content of the message, altering the proposed terms of the merger, before Roland sees it. Which of these is true?
   * This describes a Man-in-the-Middle attack. Roland will probably NOT realize that the email was tampered with.
3. On the staff of Kumquat Computing, Inc. -
Jared's main task is to protect the confidentiality of a customer database that's kept on a LAN in the lobby and waiting rooms. Tyrone's main task is to protect the confidentiality of client files that are stored in the cloud. Which is true of Jared's and Tyrone's main tasks?
   * Jared is doing information security. Tyrone is doing both information security and cybersecurity.
4. Ransomware is a malicious program that can encrypt intercepted data. The attacker controlling the software can demand a ransom before allowing the data to be decrypted, rendering it useless until the price is paid. Which of the following is TRUE about ransomware?
   * Ransomware is a type of malware.
5. In securing information and information systems, an organization can implement an SMS-based password authentication protocol in an addition to the username/password combination requirement for system access. Which aspect of information security is addressed by the additional layer of security?
   * Confidentiality