### Lesson Summary
In the modern age we need to protect information just like we protect our property and valuables. As we continue to digitize our lives, information security is becoming more crucial for individuals, businesses, and governments alike. The three principles of the **CIA triad** - confidentiality, integrity and availability - are applied by information security professionals every day to protect physical and digital information.

**Confidentiality** is to keep information out of the hands of people who are not authorized to have it; **integrity** means keeping your information intact and is an important part of information security; and **availability** means we are able to access our information when and where we need to. While keeping information secure is vital, making sure it's available when needed is just as important.


### Quiz
1. Which of the following best describes confidentiality as it relates to information security?
   * Preventing unauthorized users from accessing information
2. What are the three principles of the information security CIA triad?
   * Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability
3. Which of the following best describes availability as it relates to information security?
   * Making sure information can be accessed by those who need it and have authorization
4. Which of the following would you NOT consider to be information?
   * A valuable wall painting
5. Which of the following best describes integrity as it relates to information security?
   * Keeping data and information intact