### Lesson Summary
**Phishing** is a form of deception used to extract sensitive information from individuals through email and other forms of online communication. The objective of a phishing scheme is to entice an unknowing internet user into disclosing information, such as bank account numbers or passwords, by masquerading as a legitimate entity, like a bank. Tactics include the following:

* **Email spoofing** is when the fishing email comes from a real email address or appears to be legitimate by featuring the insignia or logo of a real banking institution in order to deceive the user.

* **Spear phishing** is a targeted form of email spoofing in which some of the potential victim's information is included in the email to gain their trust.

* **Website spoofing** involves the use of fake websites and web addresses (known as URLs).

Responses to the phishing epidemic range from technological remedies (such as browser security and spam filters) to general social awareness through user education.

### Quiz
1. Which of the following terms describes the practice of attempting to acquire sensitive information with deceptive emails?
   * Phishing
2. What type of information is typically subject to phishing attacks?
   * All answers are correct.
3. A phishing attack that incorporates personal information about the user is known as which of the following?
   * Spear phishing
4. Which of the following describes a technological response to phishing attacks?
   * Spam filters
5. A phishing attack that uses fraudulent website to capture sensitive information is known as what?
   * Website spoofing