### Lesson Summary

**Social engineering** is a method of technological attack that relies heavily on human interaction, and mainly involves deceiving people into failing to observe normal security procedures. These attacks are very costly and invasive. The deceptive methods used in social engineering attacks are always changing and hard to stay ahead of.

* **Baiting** attacks usually prey on our curiosity or desire for free stuff. Free movie or music downloads may seem attractive, but they may be a fraudulent attempt to gain access to your computer or steal your login credentials.
* **Phishing** attempts in your email, text, or social media messages are very common. Downloading or visiting links from an email or message that you are not certain is legitimate is usually not a good idea.
* **Pretexting** attacks are usually a longer con game. The scammer takes more time and effort to gain sensitive information or access to your machine by becoming a trusted source of information.
* **Scareware** is designed to shock and scare you into thinking your computer is infected with a virus, so you download fraudulent software that does actually install a virus on your computer.
* The **watering hole** attack is when a hacker targets and hacks specific websites. The hacker will inject a virus, usually a Trojan, into the web page of the site, so all visitors to the page will be infected by their virus.


### Quiz
1. Social engineers use the same methods as _____, except they use technology.
   * Con men
2. Which type of social engineering attack might involve giving away USB drives with malware loaded on them?
   * Baiting
3. Which type of social engineering method might involve a college website that has been targeted and hacked, leaving behind malicious code that will execute when the page is loaded?
   * Watering Hole
4. What is the most common type of social engineering attack?
   * Phishing
5. A Windows system message appears on your screen saying, 'Your computer is infected, click here to scan'. If this is a scam, what type of scam is it likely to be?
   * Scareware