### Lesson Summary
To recap, **social media** is a collection of Internet-based websites that promote personal and business-focused interaction. Notable social media websites include Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube, and Twitter. There are a number of risks associated with social media, including **social engineering**, which uses trusted personas to gain sensitive information on a person; **phishing**, which includes the theft of confidential information or money. Other risks include fake accounts; spam and malware; **site compromise**, which occurs when an attacker embeds malicious code on a site; and **information disclosure**, when personal or confidential information is made available to the world.

Fortunately, there are a number of things you can do to protect yourself, which include check for compromise, use multi-factor authentication, avoid password reuse, update security regularly, review connections regularly, review risks regularly, and constantly monitor.


### Quiz
1. Which of the following is NOT a social media website?
   * WalMart.com
2. Which of the following social media threats/risks deals with celebrities?
   * Fake accounts
3. Which of the following is a characteristic of social media?
   * Which of the following is a characteristic of social media?
4. Which of the following is NOT a threat/risk associated with social media?
   * Hardware failure
5. How can you tell if an account on social media has been compromised?
   * Check Internet lists of compromised accounts