### Lesson Summary
Threats to security are a constant concern for individuals and businesses. **Security management** is the accuracy, integrity, and safety of information resources. When effective security measures are in place, they can reduce errors, fraud, and losses.

There are intentional and unintentional threats. **Unintentional threats** are considered to be human error, environmental hazards, and computer failures. Most people don't purposely cause harm. **Intentional threats** refer to the purposeful actions resulting in theft or damage of computer resources, equipment, and data. Intentional threats include viruses, denial of service attacks, theft of data, sabotage, and destruction of computer resources.

There are a number of defensive strategies and tools that have been developed to assist in preventing threats. These include encryption, firewalls, anti-virus software, biometric security, user identification and passwords, security monitors, and disaster recovery.

### Quiz
1. When Elliot plants malicious code on a corporate computer that will destroy files he is considered a _____.
   * hacker
2. Which of the following is an unintentional threat to the security of computer networks?
   * Computer failures
3. When Angela buys a new smartphone that uses retina scanning instead of a password, the phone is using _____ security.
   * biometric
4. Which of the following is a method for securing data by using special mathematical algorithms to convert the data into a scrambled code before transmission?
   * Encryption
5. Bill is the new Chief Technology Officer at Z Corp. He plans to use _____ to prevent theft and protect the integrity of Z Corps. data.
   *  All of these are correct.