Learn about programming languages and their own set of rules, called syntax. Explore the programming toolbox and what purpose they serve in program syntax.

### Programming Syntax
**Programming** is a creative process carried out by programmers to instruct a computer on how to do a task. A **program** is a set of instructions that tells a computer what to do in order to come up with a solution to a particular problem. The actual content of the program is called code. That is why programming is often referred to as coding or writing code.

Code is written in a language that a computer can understand. There are hundreds of different programming languages, each with their own logic and syntax. A programming language has its own **syntax**, which consists of the set of rules that dictate how words and symbols can be put together to form a program.

The concept of syntax in programming language is similar to the concepts of grammar and spelling in spoken language. When a sentence in English has very poor grammar and spelling, it becomes difficult or even impossible to understand. Similarly, when code has syntax errors, the program will not execute.

The difference is that when you read a sentence in English with a minor error, you can typically still understand its meaning. Very small syntax errors in code, however, make the program unusable. Coders, therefore, have to pay great attention to detail to make sure their code is not only logical but also free of syntax errors. There are a number of aspects to syntax, including statements, variables and keywords.

### Statements
Statements are the basic unit of code. A statement can assign a value to a variable, perform a single action, control the execution of other statements and do any number of other things. A **statement** consists of a single line of code that does something. A very simple example of a statement is the following:

```py
print("Hello World!");
```

When executed, this print statement prints the text 'Hello world!' to the screen, just as you might have expected.

### Variables
Programming languages use variables. You can think of a **variable** as a container in which you can store a value that can be retrieved at any time. In other words, variables store information. Let's consider a very simple example:

```py
x = 17;
```

The variable is x, and you assign the value of 17 to this variable. This is an assignment statement. Once you assign a value to a variable, you can use the variable to do something else. For example:

```py
x * 2;
```

Once you run this code, you get the result 34.

Variables can contain any valid data type, including strings, numbers, Boolean values, lists, arrays and others. For example, here is how you could use a string variable:

```py
mytext = "Hello world!";
```

Variable names can be just about anything, but they typically cannot start with a number since the first part of the variable would be confused with a number. Now you can do something with this string. For example, the following code:

```py
print(mytext);
```

This will print the value of the variable 'mytext' to the screen, so 'Hello world!'

### Keywords
Programming languages use keywords. A **keyword** is a term that has a specific meaning within that programming language. For example, the command 'print' in the previous example is a keyword. As you might have guessed, this keyword prints whatever comes after it to the screen. Another example of a keyword would be 'import,' used to import something so that it can be used in the program. Keywords are reserved, meaning that you cannot use them for anything else. For example, you cannot create a variable called 'import,' since this would get very confusing.

### Controlling Workflow
You can think of a computer program as a series of statements that are executed line-by-line. By default, lines are executed in a simple sequence from the first line to the last line, unless there is a statement that tells the execution to jump to somewhere else in the code. A number of different statements are used to control the execution of part of the program.

A conditional statement allows for choosing between two or more execution paths. A conditional statement is also sometimes referred to as a selection statement or branching. For example, an 'if' statement is used to execute a block of code when a particular condition is true. If the condition is false, the block of code is skipped and the rest of the code in the program is executed. A variation on this is the 'if-else' statement. The block of code following the 'else' statement is executed if the 'if' statement is false.

Let's look at an example of an 'if-else' statement. Consider an ATM where someone wants to make a withdrawal of $100. This amount needs to be compared to the account balance to make sure there are enough funds. Here is the code:

```py
x = 100;
if balance < x {
print "Insufficient balance";
} else {
print "Please take your money";
}
```

If the account balance is less than $100, the ATM prints the message 'Insufficient balance.' If the account balance is equal to or more than $100, the ATM prints the message 'Please take your money.' To keep the example simple, the other activities of the ATM are not included here, such as issuing bills and returning the bank card. They key point here is that only one of the two paths is executed based on a condition; the other path is skipped.

A repetition statement is used to execute a block of code multiple times. The use of these types of statements is referred to as looping. There are a number of different types of loop statements, including 'for' and 'while.' Here is an example of a while statement:

```py
i = 0;
while i < = 10 {
print(i);
i = i + 1;
}
```

The variable i is set to 0, but is increased in steps of 1. When the value of i reaches 10, the condition is no longer true, and the block of code that follows is no longer executed. The result? The values of 0 through 10 are printed to the screen. Don't worry about having to write code like this yourself. The key point is that looping can be used to repeat steps. This is much easier than writing out the steps 10 times.

### Comments
By default, all lines of code in a program are executed. Even to experienced programmers, however, the logic of code can be difficult to follow if there are very complicated steps. It is, therefore, helpful to place comments within the code that explain some of the logic behind the steps. To avoid the comments being mistaken for code, some type of special character is used at the start of each line of comments.

The earlier code example with comments would be something like this, using two slashes as line comments (\\):

```py
//This code prints the integers from 0 to 10.
i = 0;
while (i <=10) {
print(i);
i = i + 1;
//you can also add 1 to a number using +=.
//i +=1 is the same as i = i + 1
}
```

Which special character is used varies by programming language. This is part of the unique syntax of each language.

### Lesson Summary
In summary, code is written in the language that a computer can understand. Each **programming** language has its own syntax, which consists of the set of rules that dictate how words and symbols can be put together to form a **program**.

A **statement** consists of a single line of code that does something. For example, printing some text to the screen or checking a condition. A **variable** is a container in which you can store a value that can be retrieved at any time. A **keyword** is a term that has a specific meaning within that programming language. Workflow in a program is controlled using techniques like looping and branching.

### Learning Outcomes
After you've reviewed this video lesson, you will be able to:
* Summarize what programming is
* Define syntax and explain its importance in programming
* Describe several aspects of syntax: statement, variable and keyword
* Explain how workflow can be controlled in a program

## Quiz
1. The following piece of generic code is an example of which of the following ways that workflow can be controlled in a program?
   * Conditional statement
2. A memory location that can store a value within a program is called a/an:
   * Variable
3. What is the importance of syntax in programming?
   * When code contains syntax errors, the program will not execute correctly.
4. Which of the following phrases best describes programming?
   * A creative process carried out by programmers in order to instruct a computer on how to do a task.
5. Which of these may be an example of a keyword used in a programming language?
   * All of the answers are correct.