Want to get the ball rolling with Python? If so, this lesson is for you! Here, we will learn how to install the latest version of Python and set up a Python interpreter to write and test your code.

### Intro to Python
**Python** is a high-level programming language with abundant uses in web development, desktop application development, machine learning, data analysis, and data visualization to name a few. One of the substantial advantages of Python is that you can write concise code. Its rich libraries ensure that your code is short and brief. Who wouldn't want to use pre-written resources to cut down long lines of code?

Python is also an object oriented programming language, which makes it very seamless and flexible to use. Since it's a scripting language, too, the interpreter is ever ready for you to test the code you've written and display the output right then and there. It's so user friendly, that you can write instructions as simple as plain English.

So what are we waiting for? Let's go ahead and get started with the installation of this amazing, open-source software.

### Pre-Installation Check
It's not very difficult to install the Python interpreter. But before installing, you need to first check if Python is already there on your system. The most common operating systems for Python include Windows and Mac OS X, though it can be used on other platforms such as Unix (i.e., Solaris), Linux, or iOS. Usually most Mac OS X, Unix, and Linux systems come with Python pre-installed, but it's always good to double-check the version.

To check in Windows, open the command prompt window, type ''python'' and press the Enter key. If Python is already present, then it will display the version number, or else it will give you an error message saying python is not recognized as an internal or external command, operable program or batch file.

To check in Mac, open the Terminal application, type ''python-V'' and press the Return key. If Python is already installed, then this command will display the version number. Most Mac machines do have Python pre-installed. Nevertheless, if you want the latest version, you can go ahead and download it.

### Installing Python
To install Python on Windows, follow these steps:

1. Open https://www.python.org in your browser.
2. Click the *Downloads* menu underneath the Python logo.
3. In the Downloads menu, click the ''Windows'' menu option. This will open the ''Python Releases for Windows'' page.
4. For a 32-bit system, click on the ''Windows x86 web-based installer'' link under Python 3.7.0.
5. For a 64-bit system, click on the ''Windows x86-64 web-based installer'' link under Python 3.7.0.
6. This will download a file named ''python-3.7.0-webinstall.''
7. Double click on the file, which will then open a pop-up window; in this window, click on ''Run.''
8. This will open the Python 3.7.0 Set Up window; check the boxes at the bottom and click on the ''Install Now'' button.
9. Follow along with the set-up steps and you're done
10. To start using Python to type code, open ''Python IDLE'' from the Start Menu; this will open the Python shell window

**IDLE** is a piece of software that allows you to write code inside it. You can test and debug code, too.

To install Python on a Mac, follow these steps:

1. Open https://www.python.org in your browser.
2. Click the Downloads menu underneath the Python logo.
3. In the Downloads menu, click the ''Mac OS X'' menu option; this will open the ''Python Releases for Mac OS X'' page.
4. For a 32-bit Mac, click on the ''Download macOS 64-bit/32-bit installer'' link under Python 3.7.0.
5. For a 64-bit Mac, click on the ''Download macOS 64-bit installer'' link under Python 3.7.0.
6. Open the downloaded file and you will see the Python installation window.
7. Follow the set-up steps and click on the ''Install'' button.
8. Once installation is complete, close the window.
9. To start using it for typing code, search for ''IDLE'' on your computer; you can do this by opening ''Spotlight Search'' and typing ''IDLE'' in the search box.
10. Click on the IDLE file and you're ready to go.

For installing Python on other platforms, like Linux, iOS, Solaris, etc. simply enter https://www.python.org/download/other/ in your browser. Download the appropriate version according to your system.

### Online Option
There is also an online Python compiler available at repl.it: https://repl.it/languages/python3. At the time of writing this lesson, it was based on Python 3.6.1, mirroring Python running on Linux.

While many of the graphics applications in Python work best in one of the Integrated Development Environments, the online tool is great for building small code snippets and testing.

You can use this tool especially if you do not have access to installed software, or are running other devices other than a PC.

### Lesson Summary
**Python** is a language used to build many real-world applications that blends in beautifully with any developer's programming toolkit. It's an open source software and can be downloaded hassle-free on any machine. Before downloading Python, check if it's already present in your system, as most Mac OS X, Unix, and Linux systems come with pre-installed versions. If not, then you can visit the official website of Python and download the appropriate version for your computer.

Once Python is installed, you can open the **IDLE**, a piece of software that allows you to write code inside it, and start typing your code. Congratulations! You have now learned to set up your coding environment in Python. You can now get going on your Python journey!

## Quiz
1. How will you verify Python installation in Mac?
   * By typing IDLE in the spotlight search box
2. Why is Python a scripting language?
   * Because it is processed at runtime by the interpreter
3. Which of the following statements is true?
   * Python has an interactive mode which allows for quick testing and debugging of code.
4. What is the first step to set up a coding environment in Python?
   * Check if Python is already installed on a system.
5. What is the greatest advantage of Python?
   * Using Python, one can write concise code.