### Lesson Summary
The act of committing a **cybercrime** cannot be done without a human element. A **cybercriminal** must perform certain tasks online to commit a cybercrime. There is no specific formula for what a cybercriminal looks like, despite Hollywood's portrayal, but most share some similar characteristics such as computer savvy, a risk-taking personality and a belief they will not be caught. Technology may influence a cybercrime directly, by using a computer to commit the crime, or indirectly, such as using an online messaging program to communicate with an accomplice. On the opposite side of a cybercrime is the individual or business being **victimized**. Victims may suffer by losing money or even business data or workplace productivity. The final player in the cybercrime situation is the **investigator**. This could be an internal investigator or computer expert employed by a victimized business or an outside investigator such as a police detective or FBI agent. Investigators must possess characteristics that help them analyze crime, but also specialized knowledge of computers, tech terminology, and digital security issues.


### Quiz
1. Investigators of cybercrimes must possess objectivity, inquisitiveness and knowledge of _____.
   * Digital security issues.
2. Cybercriminals tend to share some similar characteristics. Which of these could that be?
   * They are tech savvy.
3. What is known about the profile of the common cybercriminal?
   * There is no single profile.
4. Victims of cybercrimes may suffer from all of these repercussions EXCEPT which?
   * Loss of personal attention.
5. How can the use of technology influence cybercrime?
   * It can be used to commit crimes directly or indirectly.